The Polytechnic Institute of Bragança not only promotes but also encourages the mobility of its students and of others from other institutions, both from within and outside Europe. Mobility from and to the IPB is achieved with total academic recognition, using the following ECTS tools: the student application form, the learning agreement and the transcript of records.
 
Student application form:
Applying to mobility while studying can be accomplished through filling in an appropriate application form. For more information on this please visit the website of the International Relations Office of the IPB at www.ipb.pt/iro.
Student application form model.

Learning Agreement
For a student in mobility attending a higher education degree is conditioned to the previous arrangement of a learning agreement. The learning agreement is arranged:
By the IPB as a sending institution, the receiving institution and the IPB student in mobility. This agreement is prepared by the International Relations Office of the IPB, more specifically by the institutional coordinator, the departmental coordinators of the IPB schools and their counterparts at the host institution;
By the IPB as a host institution, the sending institution and the international student in mobility. This agreement can be prepared by the International Relations Office of the IPB, more specifically by the institutional coordinator, the departmental coordinators of the IPB schools and their counterparts at the sending institution;
The learning agreement for mobility students at the IPB must include:
The course units the student will attend while at the host institution, the languages during the learning activities and during assessment, as well as the number of credits they correspond to;
The course units of the degrees awarded by the IPB schools whose approval can be replaced by those referred to in a) and the number of credits given in case of successfully completed courses (through the filling of the academic recognition plan);
The criteria the IPB adopts for the conversion of grades in the pursued course units and the successful results in the host institution;
The time slot in which the student is placed at the host institution.
Any changes to the initial learning agreement should be amended and registered as soon as possible.
Under student mobility for placements, the student, the HEI and the European company should also establish and sign a training agreement.
Learning agreement model.
Training agreement model.

Transcript of Records
Each higher education student in mobility is entitled to a transcript of records. This document provides evidence of the course units the student has attended as well as the grades awarded in successfully pursued studies.
For each course unit indication is given about: a) the name of the course unit; b) the ECTS allocation of credits, c) the grades awarded according to the national grading system; d) the grades complying with the European ECTS grading table.
The transcript of records is issued by the host institution, in this case the IPB, in order to certify the information about the completed educational components, their level and the results obtained.
As a sending institution IPB recognizes all the work completed abroad, the credits awarded, and assigns it into the degree programme the student is attending.
Transcript of records model.
