General description of the School
The School of Communication, Public Management and Tourism is located in the city of Mirandela, right in the geographical center of the region of Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro. In spite of being a decentralized organic unit of the Polytechnic Institute of Bragança its location ensures a minimum distance to several villages and cities of the region, and it also represents an important factor of the success of the institution.

The School first appeared as a center of the School of Technology and Management of Bragança. Three years later, it adopted an autonomous structure, assuming the name of School of Technology and Management of Mirandela. Since then, regardless of the distance between the two schools, it has been felt that the School should evolve independently, claiming for its own identity and competences that highlight it within the IPB. With the restructuring of the IPB Statutes approved in December 2008, the School adopted the designation of School of Communication, Public Management and Tourism, formalizing the desired differentiation, already evident in the training offer.


The emergent areas of the Communication and Tourism, considered of paramount importance to the School as well as to the region, are in accordance with the actual society and the community guidelines. They are based on the available technological resources, the concentration of public services and administration, the dynamism of the local enterprises, as well as the patrimonial and cultural resources.

The emerging areas of Communication and Tourism, considered critical and crucial for both the School and the development of the region in relation to current society and the guidelines emanated by the community guidelines. They are based on the available technological resources, the concentration of public services and the dynamism of the local enterprises that benefit from the resources that the school forms, along with the patrimonial and cultural resources of the region.


The School concentrates its valences in three strategic areas, spread among nine first cycle programs. As such, converging with the domains of the Communication, Public Management and Tourism, the School offers the programs of Public Management, Informatics and Communication, Marketing, Multimedia, Law Studies, Game Design, Tourism and Guiding and Site Interpretation.

The year 2008 brought EsACT-IPB its own identity by evolving to the current training offer which includes the Advanced Professional Technical Courses (CTeSP) in Informatics, Touristic and Cultural Promotion, Digital Communication, Legal Services, Catering and Food Innovation, Business Administration and Sales and Marketing Management. The eight available degrees represent new and attractive areas such as Public Management and Administration, Informatics and Communications, Marketing, Multimedia, Law for Solicitors, Communication and Journalism, Tourism and Digital Games Design. And fulfilling an ancient yearning, 2015 brought to the light the second cycle courses with the Master's Degrees in Tourism Marketing and Local Government.

Name and address
Escola Superior de Comunicação, Administração e Turismo de Mirandela
Instituto Politécnico de Bragança
Campus do Cruzeiro - Avenida 25 de Abril, Cruzeiro, Lote 2. Apartado 128.
5370-202 Mirandela
Portugal

Tel: +351 /300029900/+351 278201340

Academic authorities
Director
Sonia Paula da Silva Nogueira

Sub-directors
Carlos Filipe Campos Rompante da Cunha
Vitor Jose Domingues Mendonca

ECTS school co-ordinators
Catarina Alexandra Alves Fernandes (	cfernandes@ipb.pt)
Ana Sofia Montenegro Goncalves Coelho (	anasofia.coelho@ipb.pt)
Rute Isabel Esteves Ferreira Couto (	rute@ipb.pt)

